## Introduction to Mastery Manager

Mastery Manager is a web-based software application designed for the educator. Mastery Manager helps the teacher easily monitor a student’s progress toward mastering standards, and supports the administrator in constructing strategies to build a better learning environment.
 
Mastery Manager's Core module allows the user to create answer key-only formative or summative assessments. The assessments can be administered on pre-printed purchased forms, plain paper forms printed by the user or online virtual bubble forms. Local or State learning standards can be associated with each question in an assessment to closely measure what the student knows. Mastery Manager’s revolutionary SmartScan™ software can scan approximately 40-45 sheets of answer forms a minute. Mastery Manager accurately stores a student’s responses and offers the user the flexibility to enter or change the correct answer to a question before or after an assessment is administered. There is no need for the user to check multi-mark on student's responses or re-scan forms in the event the user has given the wrong answer key to a question. This allows the user’s time to be better spent on analyzing assessment data and taking actions rather than on collecting assessment data.
 
Mastery Manager's Rubric module helps educators utilize PARCC or Smarter Balanced Rubrics, align any standard to any rubric element, quickly score and create rubric-based assessments and report on student performance by element of the rubric and learning standard. The Rubric module allows the educator to create customized rubrics that can be used multiple times in multiple assessments and can be shared with colleagues throughout their district.
 
Mastery Manager's Report section offers a variety of score-based and standards-based assessment data, allowing the teacher to analyze how the student performed and identify the student’s weaknesses. Report data can be viewed for a class, for an individual student or for a student group. Based on the standards-driven reports, the teacher may decide to either re-teach the section in which the student struggles most, or create intervention groups to monitor students requiring special attention. Assessment data travels with the student throughout school years and provides longitudinal analysis on student performance. The teacher receiving a new class of students can gain a better picture of the students’ level of proficiency by viewing their historic assessment data in Mastery Manager. The administrator can make informed decisions based on report data to assist teachers in enhancing their teaching by, for example, forming a collaborating teacher group, or by providing additional resources teachers may need. Mastery Manager’s report data is the most valuable tool to be used in building a better learning environment.
 
Mastery Manager's Item Bank module allows for creating, importing and storing questions in Mastery Manager. Questions from another source such as ExamView, Examgen and Quia can be easily imported with a few clicks of a mouse. Certica Solutions Formative Item Bank has 81,000+ questions which have been aligned to Common Core and State Standards are also available with an additional subscription. Because questions are stored in Mastery Manager, the user can easily randomize questions and responses when administering an item bank assessment. The user can also track statistics on each question to understand the difficulty level, discrimination index and validity of a response of a question. Item Bank allows the user to make more robust assessment questions that closely measure what the student knows.
 
An Item Bank module subscription also gives the user the added benefit of publishing an item bank assessment online without ever printing paper answer sheets. The Online Testing module included in an Item Bank subscription allows the user to easily publish assessments containing video/audio elements and colorful content. The user currently subscribing to plain paper or purchased forms can subscribe to the Online Testing module to take advantage of using virtual bubble forms to administer an answer key-only or ACT practice assessment online. Online Testing eliminates the time spent in scanning paper answer sheets and offers the student immediate feedback on scores, standards and review of assessment questions online. The Online Testing module is yet another useful Mastery Manager tool that helps efficiently collect assessment data so the user’s time can be better spent analyzing assessment data and constructing action plans.
 
Mastery Manager's Survey module enables anonymous collection of data on attitudes, impressions, opinions and satisfaction level from a group of students, teachers, staff or administrators. Surveys can be administered on plain paper forms or purchased forms and scanned into Mastery Manager to tabulate results. Surveys can also be administered online with virtual survey forms with the subscription to the Online Testing module. Mastery Manager provides easy-to-read pie charts that display the distribution of the survey responses for the whole group or by demographics or sections. It is a great Mastery Manager tool to receive insightful feedback.
 
Mastery Manager's Data Warehouse module allows the user to view how a student performs in standardized tests such as PSAE, ACT, Explore, Plan, ISAT, etc. Mastery Manager imports students' scores in a standardized test and custom builds reports specific to standardized tests. Reports can be viewed by specific demographics or by trending of student performance in multiple years. These reports will provide a complete picture of a student’s academic level in standardized tests and will provide both the teacher and the administrator a way to measure the effectiveness of instruction and policies.
 
Mastery Manager's Core module allows the user to collect data with tests the user already has today and to easily align test questions to State, Common Core or local learning standards. The Rubric module helps educators create customized rubrics that can be aligned to Common Core State Standards and supports PARCC and Smarter Balanced rubrics. Mastery Manager's Reports provide meaningful score-based as well as standards-based data for the user to precisely pinpoint what the student knows and does not know. Mastery Manager's Item Bank module takes a step further by creating a central repository for the user to store and enhance test questions. The user can query questions from an item bank matching specific keyword, grade level, difficulty level and learning standards. Constructing an assessment entirely based on specific standards is made easy. Mastery Manager's Online Testing module eliminates the administrative tasks involved in paper test administration and enables instant scoring and feedback. Mastery Manager's Survey module allows the user to receive anonymous feedback from a population on any topic. Mastery Manager's Data Warehouse module offers powerful yet clearly charted reports for the user to understand how the student performs individually and as a whole school. Mastery Manager is the best tool to provide the knowledge an educator needs to build a better learning environment for every student.
